Now how can we let the player of our game choose that initialMaxLife here? For that,
Javascript has a nice little built-in function, so the browser has a nice little built-in function I
should say and in Javascript in the browser, you can therefore use that
and that's the prompt function.
It's a bit like alert which shows a message dialog,
this also shows a dialog but it shows a dialog where the user may enter something.
So here, first of all we have some text which is displayed to the user, for example maximum life for you
and the monster, to tell the user what you should enter
and then you also can define an initial value which should be a string,
so for example 100. Now if you save that and you reload this page, you're presented with this prompt where
you can enter a value, for example 70.
Now if you hit okay, nothing happens right now because we're not doing anything with that entered value,
the prompt function actually returns the value the user entered.
So here I got my entered value constant which holds that value the user chose here. Now that will be a
string, not a number, that's important but I want to have a number here to do my calculations correctly
and not start concatenating strings or anything like that,
so I want a number here and therefore we should convert this to a number.
Of course you learned how that works,
we can simply use parseInt, either wrap this right around this prompt function here which would work
or for readability sake, do it right here on chosenMaxLife where I then use parseInt on my entered
value, so the entered value here which is a string is forwarded to parseInt. Now of course, the user could
have entered any kind of garbage here, for example a string which is not convertible to a number and
therefore here we can add an if check and you can do that here as well, not just inside of functions
but also directly in the script and check if the chosenMaxLife here is maybe not a valid number
and for that, you can use another function built into Javascript and that's the isNan function
which checks if that is not a number and parseInt will yield not a number,
szo this special NAN type if you remember, if the value you pass to it, so entered value in this case
is something that can't be converted to a number, then it will spit out NAN as a value which is then
stored in chosenMaxLife and with isNan, we check if that's the case,
so if chosenMaxLife happens to be not a number,
so this NAN special value. If that's the case, I'll set chosenMaxLife to my default of 100
so that we still have a working value for the game, we then don't use what the user entered because that
was unusable,
instead we use our default value here.
I also want to step in if the user sets the life here to a negative value or to zero,
so we'll add the or operator here and check if chosenMaxLife is smaller or equal than zero,
that means that I also reset this to 100 if the user entered a too low life.
Now one important note regarding the order of evaluation here, Javascript works such that it first checks
this here if you have the or operator and if this yields true, since or wants one of the two values to yield
true, to yield true overall, it doesn't even look at that second check here.
So if we have chosenMaxLife which is not a number, it won't even try to do that comparison which is
great because for this comparison, we need chosenMaxLife to be a number but it will not even try to
do that if this already tells us that it is not a number
so that's really good,
it will stop for the or operator after the first sub condition that returned true.
If you had and here, it would always look at both because obviously for and, both need to return true
but for or, it stops after the first one that yielded true.
So if we don't have a number with which we can work, it will not even try to do this check here.
Now in either case, we set chosenMaxLife to 100 and therefore now we give the user a chance
of initializing the values here. So if I save that and I reload,
now we get that prompt and if I enter 80 here and I then inspect these health bars, you will see that indeed
max and value is set to 80 here. If we now attack,
you see this decreases to lower values and at some point, we won and then we can start another new game and
we won again because I'm spamming the strong attack,
obviously this game is not really balanced, by spamming strong attack you will very likely win every
game but it's more about practicing if statements than building the next best amazing game which will
win you tons of money, you will have to do that on your own unfortunately.
So that works, if I reload and I set a different value like let's say 200, you see it takes 200
as a value here and therefore of course, the game takes way longer,
the health bars take way longer to shrink. If I reload again and I set this to 5, obviously
then one hit is enough to win
and if I set this to let's say -10 you set, we end up with 100 because then we overwrite the user
choice because of the invalid values here.
Now by the way if we press cancel here, we also go with the default values because that also doesn't
yield us a valid number in the end.
So with that, we got these basics down,
now there are certainly more we can tweak and more we will do in this section, for example we're also
not doing anything with the show log button because we're not writing a log at the moment
but the basic game logic is implemented and we have a couple of examples for if checks,
also with this special isNan function here and lots of combinations of conditions, lots of different
checks.